4 Ch. 11 (139)
did I ever make a fool of myself? peace, which did not prove that the most wretched thing in the world is drunkenness, and that every drunkard makes a beast of himself, and not only a beast, but a sinful devil, who tramples the gift of the Holy Spirit, that is: reason, underfoot? – For that, boy, when you see a gathering of drunkards, do not tell them differently, but just say:
'Oh, curses on you, and shame on you, and may stones be with you and rattling, where chickens do not crow and bells do not clang, you shameless and godless ones! May God grant that such a thing never again be seen or heard in our Rus!' – People only shed tears, and then they started turning our Andrus into a target!... And it was so that the child's father barely pulled him out of the hands of the drunken godfathers, and said to him: 'What, boy, are you, out of your mind, or what? If such a thing happens to you, do not speak so badly, but say: 'God grant that such a thing be seen and heard in every village a hundred and two hundred times a year, and in every house two or three times!' That's what you should say, fool, and now go to your mother, so that there's no stench here!'
Our Andrus went on, scratching his clenched head, and suddenly a crowd of people came from a funeral, the father in front, a woman with a child behind him, and then godparents, relatives, neighbors, guests, and little Andrus to them: Oh, curses on you, and shame on you, and may stones be with you and rattling, where chickens do not crow and bells do not clang, you shameless and godless ones! May God grant that such a thing never again be seen or heard in our Rus!' – People only shed tears, and then they started turning our Andrus into a target!... And it was so that the child's father barely pulled him out of the hands of the drunken godfathers, and said to him: 'What, boy, are you, out of your mind, or what? If such a thing happens to you, do not speak so badly, but say: 'God grant that such a thing be seen and heard in every village a hundred and two hundred times a year, and in every house two or three times!' That's what you should say, fool, and now go to your mother, so that there's no stench here!'
Our Andrus went on, and no longer scratching, because there was nothing left for him to scratch, such a battered wretch he was, and then they carry a corpse, and Andrus from afar to them: 'God grant that such a thing be seen and heard, in every village a hundred and two hundred times a year, and in every house two or three times!' People stopped and just wanted to give our Andrus a new scolding, but the priest did not let them and said to him: 'What is it, poor soul, that you have said? – The second time, if such a thing happens to you, take off your hat, cross yourself, and say:
'With the righteous spirits, Christ God, and faithful rest in bright paradise, in eternal peace, where angels sing, where the Saints abide!' – that's what you should say, son, and not babble such things that it's shameful to listen to. Get out!'
Our Andrus went on weeping, and then two old women sat on the porch, lamenting, and Andrus immediately took off his hat, crossed himself, and with a full mouth: 'With the righteous spirits, Christ God, and faithful rest in bright paradise, in eternal peace, where angels sing, where the Saints abide!' – that's what you should say, son, and not babble such things that it's shameful to listen to. Get out!'

INFORMATION
Swedish Workshop of Vasyl Lytvynskyi
Accepts and performs cheaply, solidly and quickly all orders within the scope of shoemaking. Has in stock an ever-increasing quantity of ready-made goods for orders from colonial buyers. Contact: Basilio Litvinsky – Uniao da Victoria, Parana – Rua Visconde de Nacar No 43.

ANNOUNCEMENTS.
(The editorial office is not responsible for advertisements).

Shoe Workshop OLEKSY SHARAVARA
IN ANTONIO CANDIDO
Has everything ready and at all times, accepts orders for all types of footwear, performing work quickly, solidly and at low prices.

Steam TANNERY CORTUME a vapor
by Pedro Mazurechen
One of the largest tanneries in this state, under the skillful and diligent management of the owner, produces all kinds of work included in the scope of tanning, quickly and solidly. SATISFACTION IS GUARANTEED.
Supplies products in any quantity. BUYS ALL RAW AND DRY SHEEPSKINS AT THE HIGHEST PRICES. For all inquiries, write to:
Pedro Mazurechen — Porto União (Tocós), Sta Catharina, Parana.

XARQUEADA –
of CARLOS PRATER
A major xarqueada in Porto União, awarded at the centennial exhibition, ALWAYS HAS A LARGE STOCK of JERKED BEEF.
Address: Porto União, Rua Coronel Amazonas — Telephone No 88, (Xarqueada N° 7) — Sta Catharina.

Law Office with Ukrainian Department
Dr. Edgard de Oliveira Cruz and Stefan Volodymyr Kobylyanskyi
In Curitiba, they handle all processes in commercial, criminal and civil matters, as well as all processes concerning compensation for damages, and all kinds of land, military and inheritance cases. They handle processes for exemption from military service and unfortunate incidents. They settle matters related to obtaining 'titulos' for land plots based on the right of ownership of requisitioned and privately purchased lands in competent institutions. They handle 'inventarios', military cases, and transfers of exemption from military service in the courts of all European countries.
They also translate documents from all European languages and arrange permission to travel to Brazil from North America and Canada. The administration of the office is Mr. Stefan Volodymyr Kobylyanskyi.
For unnecessary trips, and for all matters, please contact and you will receive a reply) at the address:
Lawyer Dr. Edgard de Oliveira Cruz
Curitiba – Parana – Rua Aquidaban N. 70.

LAND AND COLONIZATION COMPANY
(SOCIEDADE TERRITORIAL E COLONISADORA)
TEXEIRA, STAUT & CIA.
OFFICE B S. PAULO – R. COUTO DE MAGALHÃES, 24 – A – ROOM, 3
CORNER OF R. WASHINGTON LUIZ.
OFFICE Rancharia Station — Sorocabana Railway.
The company is pleased to inform you that it sells the best parts of land for cultivation at the stations of Rancharia, Presidente Bernardes (Guarucaia), Santo Anastacio and Presidente Wenceslau along the Sorocabana railway in S. Paulo, in lots of 5 alqueires upwards, according to the buyer's preference.
All our lands are of the highest quality, with lush tree vegetation, which testifies to their fertility, with trees such as: Pau d'alho, Figueira, Branca, Jangada, etc., and alongside them, with a large number of noble trees, a quite good climate.
All these lands lie above the processed stations along the Sorocabana railway in S. Paulo. Of all these lands, we draw attention to the Rancharia lands, which are distinguished not only by their quality, high elevation, but also by the fact that these lands are only eight kilometers from the station, and 12 kilometers from the railway. Our buses for automobiles, to facilitate the transportation of automobiles for our buyers to this destination, are completely free.
You should know that the Rancharia lands are improving as they are already settled, having famous commerce, hotels, etc.
All our lands are suitable for any crop. And you can see fields with coffee (which grows surprisingly fast here), corn and cotton (algodão), etc. Within 3 years, they produce stable and creative effective settlements, hospitals, etc.
Japanese, Italian, and other small settlers have established themselves here, standing on their own feet thanks to abundant grain and cotton harvests, and, moreover, they have planted several thousand coffee bushes.
All settlers, small and large, live in prosperity and plenty along the Sorocabana railway, where the land has never suffered from frost damage, and seeing the growth of their coffee, Porto Pavlio.
By visiting us, you can personally verify everything we say.
Visit us, and we will do everything possible to ensure you live well.
The land is located 93 kilometers from the northern border of Paraná state.
The following gentlemen have already purchased land from us in Picadas, S. Klyaro: Mr. St. Pavliv 100 alq., Vasyl Pavlo Sukh 10 alq., Petro Karmanskyi to Sukh 38 1/2 alq., Leonardo Tarmolli alq., 95 José Konopa, Gritius Pavlo alq.
Land price from 200 to 500$ alqueires.
Five alqueires are enough to live well.
For further information, please contact Prof. P. Karmanskyi.
TEXEIRA, STAUT & CIA.
Official representative of the Ukrainian Union in Brazil 'LIDII' Porto União, S. Catarina.

Read! NICOLAO PECUCH
WITH A HOUSE OF FARMS AND GENERAL STORE
RUA 15 de NOVEMBRO
I inform my countrymen from the Iraty area that I have received directly from the factory all kinds of good quality goods and sell them at a low price. For example: marshmallows at a price of 1$300, pieces at 1$300, 'alvejada' (1 meter) at 12$500, etc.
So, whoever wishes to buy good and cheap goods, should visit the store:
NICOLAO PECUCH
(Formerly: AUGUST BOROGOSKI).

HENRIQUE BURMESTER
buy Yerba mate and other products from the country.
REPRESENTATIVE OF 'STANDARD OIL COMPANY'.
Always a large stock of gasoline and kerosene.
Office and Deposit:
União da Victoria, Rua Dr. Cruz Machado
E. Paraná.
Deposit:
Porto União, Rua Prudente de Moraes
E. Sta Catharina.

PROTEST IN JANGADA.
(From Brazil)
Informs the T. Shevchenko (F.U.) society in Jangada that on February 27 of this year, at an extraordinary meeting, a protest was raised against the invitation of O.O. Vasyl, a Greek-Catholic consul, to the ceremony of laying the cornerstone for the construction of a Greek-Catholic church in...
Deputy Head M. SHARAVARA
Secretary: S. SAVYTSKYI

MISCELLANY.
Tobacco and health.
Doctors say that tobacco weakens memory by 10 to 33% and does not refresh sleep. Smokers quickly get poor, generally speaking, notes Doctor Tourney.

FROM WISE THOUGHTS.
A carelessly spoken word is a complete secret.
He who has not felt pity has never loved.
The first indicator of domestic happiness is love for one's home.