4 
BY TRUTH, LIAR- THEY PROMISE A HOT CLIMATE IN 
IN THE EYE. 
EUROPE.
first, here we everywhere have this certificate of belonging, otherwise it is not allowed to sign a contract, nor to register it. All circumventions of this law are severely punished.
Two scholars, Welsche and Bandon, state that great changes will occur in all of Europe in the near future. The signs of these changes are the numerous earthquakes, volcanoes, huge snowfalls, and the world has been visited by these recently. Due to these earth tremors and common occurrences, fanatics of the Baltic Soviet fleet managed to retrieve the British submarine (boat) from the bottom of the Azov Gulf, where it had been sunk by Soviet warships. The submarine, pulled from the water, was towed to Kronstadt and placed in the bay. The submarine remained underwater for almost 9 years, and its hull was thickly covered with rust. This is one of the most powerful vessels of its type. Its construction was completed in 1919. Its displacement is 1150 tons. It has 6 torpedo tubes and 6 rapid-fire guns. Skeletons of British sailors were found inside the submarine's compartments. It is believed that about 40 souls perished on board. On the submarine's upper deck, there is evidence that it was struck by a cannon. Further investigation will reveal other damage and the causes of its sinking. The preliminary…
In 'Prav-', the column of 'Lendar', never, never- 'Hvaran' and such dark, illiterate people, who, in their opinion, sell the public good, they say, for pickles, what they talk about. And if the 'drutchky' of these 'Riovania' — Catholic mixtures — was such, as it was assumed to be, that they could not be right. I think that… Ordinarily, these events will begin to sink into a deep sleep that covers the poles and polar regions. The Earth will experience its hottest period. It will grow warmer and warmer there in the north, where the ice melts, and will be able to sustain a population that will emigrate there from densely populated southern regions.
The moderate climate will actually shift north, where there is now eternal winter, and a hot climate will come from the south to this place. This year's heat waves are supposed to show, according to these scholars, that this time is not far off. It is interesting to know what the climate will be like in Brazil when the warmth escapes us to the north?
Search.
Assuming that this refers to Mr. Semen Kravchenko from Porto União, we publish the following announcement from the Polish consulate in Curitiba, placed in issue 66 of the Paranense Polish newspaper 'Lud' dated September 22: 'Olena Kravchenko (Helena Krawcienko) from Stanislaviv, residing in the village of Hryby, Hostynsky district, is looking for her husband Semen Kravchenko (Szymon Krawcienko), who emigrated to Brazil in 1925 and resided in União da Vitória (Paraná).
Buy a shaker!
Selling 10 'alkeirs' of good land, including 6 'alkeirs' of forest and 4 'kapseyry', located near Legru C. Catarina station, 182 kilometers away. The land is 250 meters from the railway line. Price: 2:5000$000. Take advantage of this opportunity! For inquiries, please contact: Ivan Mohylsky. Dorizon – Serra de Tigre – Paraná
„ 1925 " 1, 24, 
„ 1926 " 14, 21, 23, 
" 37, 41
„ 1927 " 1, 17, 19, 20,
„ 1928 " 1, 2.
Ukrainian Farmer. Publishing House 'U. Khliboroba'.
–0–
Calendar 'U. Khliboroba' for 1928.
In addition to calendar and information, the calendar contains:
1. P. Karmansky: Five years.
2. Olga Oleksandra Dumyn — poet.
3. O. Oles: If we cried.
4. Gaston Peñyalva: Legend of the — (translation from Portuguese by P. Karmansky).
5. M. Starytsky: To Ukraine —
6. Coelho Netto: Love (translation by P. Karmansky).
7. Ivan Franko: Gryts's school —
8. Ivan Franko: Blessed husband.
9. Viriato Correa: Sikinya (translation from Portuguese by P. Karmansky).
10. Borys Hrinchenko: Khliborob
11. P. Karmansky: 1000 years.
12. Ivan Franko: As it happens in the world (poem).
13. O. Makovey: Young plow.
14. A. Korniivsky: Physical education of man.
Ladies and Gentlemen, Buyers.
Who among you wishes to sell good and solid products, please contact for information:
Basilio Yavorsky. Rua Julio Conceção, 106. SÃO PAULO.
Ukrainian Carpentry Workshop in Porto União.
I inform all esteemed compatriots about the opening of a new carpentry workshop :: It performs all kinds of work solidly and cheaply, falling within the scope of carpentry, such as: wardrobes, beds, and all kinds of furniture.
FOR YOUR OWN!!!
'Marcenaria Progresso'. Porto União, Rua Mattos Costa, 5. Semen Miroshnichenko.
P. S. Sumsky.
For easing our withdrawal of money for letters, send money to Lavrador Ukraino“ União da Victoria – Caixa postal No 3 – Paraná – Brazil.
15. P. Karmansky: * * (poem).
16. P. Karmansky: How he founded the Ukrainian Union in Brazil.
17. Dr. V. Hankivsky: Home pharmacy.
The calendar, over 100 pages, contains illustrations of the Ukrainian-Brazilian Front and back, and a picture of today's College.
Price 2$500
In addition, the 'Lydia' printing house has published this half-year:
1. V. Kushch: Moses (poem). Reprint from 'U. Khliboroba'. Price 2$000.
struggle'. Price 1$000.
3. S. Savytsky: Bandura (novel) — 96 pages. Price – 1$000
WELL-KNOWN Shoemaking Workshop 
VASYL LYTVYNSKY.
Accepts and performs all orders cheaply, solidly, and quickly within the scope of shoemaking. – Has an increasingly large quantity of ready-made goods for customers from colonies. Contact:
Basilio Litvinsky – União da Victoria, Rua Visconde de Nacar – Paraná.
Advertisement. 
(The editorial office is not responsible for advertisements.)
CORTUME 
Tannery AZOSE MODEL 
ANDRIY LIUBETS
Various
on the road to Antônio Cândido in Paraná. Buys without. Performs all orders within the scope of tanning, solidly, cheaply and quickly. Shipping on. :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: lard, 
ANDRÉ LUBEC
Porto União
Rua 7 de Setembro N. 19 S. Catharina.
Rua 7 de Setembro N. 4
– DE – XARQUEADA
de CARLOS PRATER
The largest jerky factory in Porto União, awarded at the Centennial Exhibition, ALWAYS HAS A LARGE STOCK OF JERKY.
Address: Porto União, Rua Coronel Amazonas – Telephone N° 88, (Xarqueada N° 7) – Sta. Catharina.
PADARIA PONTA-GROSSENSE 
Augusto Bahry & Irmão
The first and only Ukrainian bakery in this city, which always has fresh rolls, bolashas, roski, biscuits, sekilis, pastries with. All kinds of candies and chocolates from the best sandwich and fruit preserves, guava, coconut, etc. Paraná factories.
AUGUST BAHRY & BROTHER. Rua General Carneiro, N° 74. Ponta Grossa.
WELL-KNOWN UKRAINIAN TAILORING WORKSHOP
Ukrainian tailoring workshop performs all kinds of work quickly, solidly, and cheaply within the scope of tailoring. Has a large stock of local and foreign fabrics and trimmings.
Recommends to esteemed clients a wide selection of men's clothing. FOR YOUR OWN!!!
Pastuch & Cia.
Caixa postal N. 23. União da Victoria. Paraná.
CERVEJARIA „CRUZEIRO“ 
CRUZEIRO Pilsen, Drink 'Cruzeiro'
Finest
Beer
„CRUZEIRO“
„COMETA“
Best Beer
„ROMBA“
U B A R A. The malt house buys BARLEY and pays the highest prices. CURITYBA, Caixa postal 1880.
From the printing house 'Ukr. Sioniv' in Brazil 'LIDIA' Porto Union
Printed by: Ukrainian Union in Brazil 'Porto União, S. Catarina'.
P. S. Sumsky.
3 
P. S. Sumsky