30. (207) Porto União, Wednesday, September 26, 1928. Year of publication V.
O LAVRADOR UKRAINSKÝ KHLIBOROB
INDEPENDENT WEEKLY
ORGAN OF 'UKRAINIAN UNION IN BRAZIL' published EVERY THURSDAY AND COSTS PER YEAR 12 $000, IN ARGENTINA 5 PESOS, IN OTHER COUNTRIES 2 DOLLARS, HALF-YEAR SUBSCRIPTION 7$000
Price of a single issue 400 Rs.
ADVERTISEMENT PRICES: 200 Rs. PER LINE FOR HALF A CENTIMETER WIDTH IN THE LENGTH OF ONE COLUMN, FOR ONE TIME
ADVERTISEMENT.
O Lavrador Ukraino
Weekly newspaper, organ of the Ukrainian Union in Brazil.
Director: Gregori Prechlak.
Manager: Pedro Mazurechen.
Typographia da União Ukraino with its headquarters in Porto União.
ADDRESS of the Editorial Board: União da Victoria - Post office box N°3 - Paraná.
To get it, or not to be home!
From Brazil.
Match factory trust?
Newspapers from Rio and S. Paulo report that American capitalists, having founded the syndicate 'Companhia Brasileira de Phosphoros', are buying up all match factories to monopolize the sale of matches in their hands.
For now, the largest Brazilian factory 'Fiat Lux' with a small number of minor factories stands in their way. It is unknown how long it will fight, because the company wants to buy this factory at any price and has already offered 28 million for it.
Newspapers now write that this company intends to raise the price of matches from one hundred to 200 reis.
Railway through the Tibagy river zone.
We recently reported on negotiations by a representative of a French company regarding the construction of a new railway. Now we are able to provide a little more detail on this matter. Under the name 'A Com. Agricola Florestal e Estrada de Alegre', which bought 60 thousand hectares of land between the Tibagy and Faisqueira rivers. The management of this company intends to build on its lands a sawmill, paper and plywood factories, wood pulp, and in addition, an artificial ice factory, cotton and tobacco. In order to have enough workers, the management will take measures to bring in immigrants, and also has a promise from the federal government to cover half of the expenses for their repatriation.
In a short time, the construction of a railway will begin, which will connect the company's lands with the S. Paulo Rio Grande railway to Iguariaíva, crossing the entire S. Jeronymo and Ribeirão Verde zone. From there, the S. Francisco, P. railway will extend for 65 kilometers, until the S. Francisco, P. Porto Grande railway 50,272,000, near Jaguaryahva. For the transportation of goods, companies with the S. Paulo Rio Grande railway will pay 1,304,000$000 per year. In 1926, this amount was established in S. Paulo and paid from own funds.
Exports from S. Catarina.
From January to August of this year, 1,304,000$000 of goods were exported. To the companies União and S. Paulo Rio Grande, 50,272,000 kilograms of materials are being paid in installments, in such a way that it will be seen that the government fulfills its conditions to the existing banks.
C.P.C.P.
In the Soviet Union, a new law on military service has been issued. For preparation for military service in the field, all those between 19 and 40 years of age are obligated to serve, as well as all those who, due to a lack of technical education, are unable to perform appropriate work in the Soviet military industry. The entire military service will last 5 years, of which 2 years are spent on leave.
From Ukrainian affairs.
Germans about Ukraine.
A young German scholar, Dr. Hans Koch, recently delivered an unusual radio lecture on the topic 'Ukraine in the Eyes of a German'. After presenting general data on Ukraine, Dr. Koch emphasized a circumstance that must strike everyone, namely the statelessness of the Ukrainian people.
Explaining the reasons for this fragmentation of Ukrainian ethnographic territory, Dr. Koch notes that the idea of consolidating Ukrainian ethnographic territory by stronger neighbors weakens the Ukrainian state-national idea (Galicia, Bohdan Khmelnytsky). Here again, he supported his thesis by comparing how the Slavic and German borderlands showed great resistance to foreign conquests. Further, Dr. Koch illuminated the true role of the Ukrainian peasantry, which not only always preserved but also doubled the Ukrainian ethnographic territory.
Expansion of the All-National Library of Ukraine.
As seen from the report of the director of the Pasternak Library at the NKO meeting, the significant status and activity of the VBU, in 10 years of existence, has reached even beyond the borders of the entire Union, and now it stands alongside the best European libraries. During this time, the VBU collected and organized 2 million books, launched extensive research and pedagogical work in bibliography and library science, and comprehensively served with scientific literature broad cadres of scientific workers and students.
St. Sophia Cathedral is being restored.
The People's Commissariat of Education allocated funds to the Kyiv regional inspection for the restoration of St. Sophia Cathedral. Work has already begun under the guidance of the Leningrad professor Kipnik.
Further closure of 'Prosvita' in Volhynia.
In Volhynia, the Polish authorities began to close and seal reading rooms in Pochaiv, Vyshnivtsi, Rakhmaniv, Savchyntsi, Komnachi, Popivtsi, Bodanky, Lozova, Vyshnivtsi, Lanivtsi, Hrabovychi, Kovorovy and Krasnoluka of Kremenets district.
Also, no collections are allowed there. The reason for the closure of 'Prosvita' is 'disorders' in the reading room's paperwork.
New Rector of the Ukrainian Economic Academy.
The professorial council of the Ukrainian Economic Academy in Poděbrady (Czechoslovakia) elected Professor Serhii Tymoshenko as rector for the following year.
New misfortune.
From Galicia come reports of hailstorms. Hail destroyed crops in Sambir district over an area of 1500 'morh' (approx. 0.5-0.7 hectares each). It reached the size of a chicken egg and weighed 150 grams. Also in Starosambirsky district, hail destroyed crops in several villages.
Metropolitan Sheptytsky as Cardinal.
Newspapers report that the Greek-Catholic Metropolitan Andriy Sheptytsky is to join and settle permanently in Rome, where he will be named a cardinal. His successor is to be the Stanislaviv bishop Khomyshyn.
From around the world.
Yugoslavia.
The wife of the recently deceased Croatian leader Stepan Radić sent a request to the League of Nations for the issuance of a control, which would oversee the actions of the Serbian judicial authorities in the process against her husband's murderer and accomplices.
Belgrade police confiscated the newspapers that published this letter.
Plague in Manchuria.\In the northwestern part of Manchuria, the plague is raging. 60 villages have already died out from this terrible disease.
French priests against celibacy.
A group of French priests began an agitation against celibacy.
Famine in China.
In North America, at the call of the New York Rescue Committee for aid to the Chinese, a campaign has been launched to raise 10 million dollars to help the starving Chinese in parts of Shili and Shandong provinces. A hunger-stricken area 100 miles long and 30 miles wide.
The secretary of the Benker committee, who came from China to America, says that 1,500,000 Chinese are now threatened with death from hunger.
Hurricane in the Antilles and in the southern part of the United States.
A terrible cyclone hit the Antilles islands. The islands of Puerto Rico, Martinique, and Guadeloupe suffered the most. Most of the population was left homeless because the storm destroyed their houses.
In the cities of Pointe and Pitre, Guadeloupe, about 300 people died, on the islands of Puerto Rico, the number of victims is reported to be 2000 people.
The hurricane also passed through the states of Florida, Nebraska, Illinois, and others in the United States.
Flu epidemic in Greece.
In Athens and its surroundings in Greece, a flu epidemic broke out. It spread widely. So far, there have been 300,000 cases. Among the sick are also President of the Greek Council of Ministers Venizelos.
Diseases also among people of other nations.
Romanians and a loan.
The government appealed to the League of Nations for help.
In a short time, the Romanian government tried to get a loan from foreign banks. The efforts were eventually successful; Romania received a loan, but under very difficult conditions.
All income and expenses must be under the control of a foreign financier. This controller will have the right to decide how much the government can collect in taxes and for what to spend them.
They don't like hard work.
One hundred communist Jews left work in the coal mine in Donetsk district.
Jewish telegraph agency.
That they could not endure work in the mines and anti-administration attitude.
Hryts Kosak-red.
The former commander of the 1st Ukrainian army and colonel of the Ukrainian Galician Army (UHA), Hryts Kosak, was appointed by the Bolshevik authorities as a general of the Red Army. He was assigned to the staff of the Caucasian rebel detachment under attack.
Execution of rebels.
The Soviet court in Uman sentenced 11 rebels to death.
The Central Executive Committee rejected the appeal for clemency.
The condemned were executed.
Spain.
In Madrid, the 'Nogostei' theater burned down. The fire claimed the lives of 425 people; many are seriously or lightly wounded.