a lot until April 30th, and then we'll see what the majority decides.
Ukrainians should not pay attention to any accusations from 'Pratsia'. It's not surprising that all 'deviations' from Ukrainianism must have their refuge. 'As the master, so his wares'—as the folk saying goes.
Papanduva 8/3/1927
B. HEVKO.
was opened anew to everyone with new information.
Thanks in Curitiba, it is necessary to practice in a way that is also useful for the Ukrainian community.
2) I believe that criticism of the Clergy, for example, and their work, should not be ignored, so that one can have a clear view on this and that, to fight with wit and success. Are there Basilians here? And their shelters, so that they do not use the same stone. 'Ukr. Khlib' fights against the invasion here.
3) 'Ukr. Khlib' provides comprehensive information and any activities in
S. Paulo, 4-III-1927.
To the Honored Editorial Board of 'Ukrayinsky Khliborob' in União da Vitória.
In the filled questionnaire of 'Ukr. Khliborob' in no. 8, I also allow myself to speak out, despite having been in Brazil for only six months and not knowing the demands of the local Ukrainian colony, so that the reading public rationally expresses its demands.
1) I believe that 'Ukr. Khliborob', as the only newspaper that follows the path of truth and defends the national cause, falls short in not providing accurate and comprehensive news from Ukrainian lands. Furthermore, the local colony consists mainly of farmers, for whom agricultural [advice] was useful in the Ukrainian office, they were able to give a lot of the necessary [information]. Something similar must exist. It is possible that this is not due to a bad religion, but rather to the extent that it is now carried out in Galicia. I think it will continue as it is now with an important goal.
[Regarding] any kind of writing, to place it here. Of the clergy and teachers. Leading terribly rough, if not criticizing, but rather five-fold, they drove out and there we learned about new, whole society. [Similar to] the conditions on this and that, clear view, you fight with wit and cunning. Are there Basilians here? And their shelters, so that they do not use the same stone. 'Ukr. Khlib' fights against the invasion here.
3) 'Ukr. Khlib' provides comprehensive information and any activities in
He shaved as God commanded. Yesterday, at our place, on Holy Sunday, grandmother 'screams':— 'Not shaved, not shaved! You, old drunkard, blind from that heat. Don't you see there are three hairs under your beard.'
First he shouted, but finally he decided he couldn't outshout his grandmother, so he took them out to have peace from her.
After coffee, we went to Mallet to collect money for the days I worked, as I didn't know, and there I learned about new things that happened in recent days.
People say that on Friday, two soldiers took from Khomova, Yas'ka Bednarchuk and Delyka from Khoma's third (house?). They were given such evenings at 'Ivanova Khata' that they will be remembered for a long time.
What they were taken for, he said he didn't know. I didn't find out, but I was scared because of it, that they are fools, not 'elementary', and do not stick together, and do not read edifying books and 'Ukrayinsky Khliborob'.
'Ukr. Khlib' complained about it, and at 'Ivanova Khata' for the 'hotel' for No. 11 (139)
(because with the press, they get on your nerves then, and you'll never praise them!), but never mind, they've already come! And the Czechs, God knows who, as if on purpose, took and sold the cuttings, and for that they promised to send us only 'a title'.
— And if there's no title, they said, they'll send books already made! So, Gentlemen of Curitiba, don't worry, something will come out! Either a ram, or a 'wild' goat!.. The main article that was supposed to be in 'Zhyttya' has already come out, namely — Humorous, and purely humorous! It's just like the work of a young blacksmith's apprentice, — who was given a large iron bar to make something out of it, and show that he knows his trade:
He put it in the fire, and when it got hot, he began to hammer... The first time something like this came out, then something like a plow, and then something like an awl, then from the awl a needle, and finally, when the iron was already cold, a 'poof' came out!
The same with our monthly 'Zhyttya'. At first, it was about to arrive, the cuttings would come, then there were none, it's necessary to sell books, and finally, it's necessary to publish it in Porto... — and that's not bad! — It's interesting if
our Curitiba community will stop playing the role of poisons? Will someone new come who can please with their beautiful words, or is this the end? What do you think, Gentlemen?
Wishing you the best success, they received much more, and in the evening they even brought water from 'Pravda' seeds.
It boiled, then you would only cover your nose with good. And you would not praise it, but you would give it some hits on the soft spot and remind it of the words of Jesus Christ: — 'Do not cast out my soul, for they threw me into prison, and did not visit me'.
ATTENTION!!!
OPPORTUNITY!
A completely new house is for sale, located in the Ukrainian district of the city.
point M. Mallet (opposite S.S. school and near the new Ukrainian church, which will soon be built)
House size – 8 m by 8 m; downstairs: living room 5 m by 5 m with 3 windows (special for tailor's, shoemaker's, or carpenter's workshop), kitchen 3 m by 4 m and two rooms: 3 m by 4 m and 3 m by 5 m and 4 m by 5 m each. 6 stove, well and chicken coop.
The plot has 20 meters of frontage to one of the main streets, Marechal Floriano street, and 50 meters of depth.
Also for sale are 4 plots in the same town.
Urgent business!
For information, contact the owner V. Kukhar (Ed. 'Ukr. Khlib.'), or Mr. Yakym Shastala in Marechal Mallet.
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE OPPORTUNITY!
Pay! $12,000 is not money, compared to what our people publish through their foolish minds!
'Ivanova Khata' has money, and much more, and 'Ukr. Khlib' they want to read for free!
He who allows 'U.Kh.' to be read without subscription harms 'Ukr. Khlib' and the Ukrainian Union.
Read and subscribe to 'Ukr. Khlib'!
To Grandfather, the 'Canadian Ukrainian'!
Oh Grandfather, Grandfather!
How glad I was that you no longer meddle with Brazilian Ukrainians!
But, it seems, you don't like farmers, and you're still instigating Tsybukh against Prof. P. Karmansky, because you were informed that way.
For this, Grandfather, you will have [to answer] before God, because that glorious 'Pratsia', which you praise so much, led us into darkness, we saw nothing and heard nothing.
And in that darkness, Prof. Karmansky saw and enlightened us.
NIKS.
A folk tale.
(Retold by Fedkovych).
That is what Germans call 'nicho', and 'ni' is a salt in the pharmacy that is mixed with rose water, and dropped into the eyes when they hurt.
And grandmother Perynukha's eyes hurt, so she took four kreutzers, and says to her son Andrus: 'Go, son, to town, and buy me for these kreutzers in the pharmacy 'niks'.
'Mom, if I forget what it's called,' says Andrus, crying, 'it's two miles from us to town, and you know, Mom, how silly I am; by the time I get to town, by then — and now I've forgotten what it's called — 'apteka', or whatever it is...
'Niks! Son, Niks!' says the old woman, stroking his hair, 'say it all the way as you go, loudly to yourself: Niks! Niks! Niks! Niks! Then you won't forget it for sure. Go now, Andrus, in good time, and say to yourself loudly: Niks! Niks! Niks! Niks!'
'Niks! Niks! Niks! Niks!' began Andrus, and shouted it at the top of his lungs, and rushed into town.
Andrus goes along the road — just then they are slaughtering a fat pig in a rich German's yard, and Andrus felt like watching. So he leaned on the fence, but he doesn't forget his own thing and shouts in one breath: Niks! Niks! Niks! Niks! — so loudly that the whole village could hear. The German listened — listened to Andrus's 'Niks', and then shouts to the lads:
'Hey, lads, give that stupid fellow a good thrashing there, so he remembers it till new brooms! Why is he shouting his 'Niks' to me in one breath, when I have no 'Niks' today, but grace, God, give every good thing to my master.' — And the lads, as if they were not our Andrus, but started to steam! The poor fellow forgot both 'niks' and everything, and — only asks the old German. 'Have mercy, goodness, and don't drive out the soul, because 'You, such a son, how dare you —'
ABOUT CORN SEED SELECTION.
The first step for a farmer in cultivating corn is to select suitable cobs, and from those cobs — the proper grain for seed. Good and careful selection of cobs for seed is practically very important, and we will discuss this in this article.
When you look at the cobs, you will see that some of them are even, not twisted. Such even ones should be selected from the pile, and twisted ones should not be taken for seed under any circumstances. When we further examine the selected even cobs, we will see that some of them, from the bottom to the top, are almost uniformly thick and densely covered with seeds from one end to the other, while others thin towards the top and either have no seeds at all, or their seeds are shriveled, underdeveloped. Again, for seed, we will only take the first cobs, densely packed with grain. And having selected them, we proceed to one review of them, namely, — we examine whether the grain on the cob is not damaged, and from the cobs with whole grain, we select only those where the grain is long. This is important because then a larger percentage (%) of grain will be on the cob, or in other words, more corn grain will yield from each morgen.
When the selection of cobs is finished, this is not the end of the matter; it is not yet possible to remove the grain from the cob; it is still necessary to test each cob for germination strength, so that for sowing only those cobs are taken whose grain grows vigorously, does not get sick, and therefore, will transmit this vigor to the entire stem in posterity. For this purpose, the cobs selected for seed are arranged in order and the grains are removed, starting from the first, 6 grains from each cob. They are removed as follows: with the tip of a small knife, one grain is removed from the upper part of the cob, then the cob is turned halfway, and one grain is removed from the middle part, then again turned to one-third and again one grain is removed, but this time from the lower part of the cob.
Shelled and placed grains on cell no. 1, on the canvas. The same on cell no. 3, etc. and later so that the cobs do not get mixed up.
Shelled and placed, then it is put into a jar with 3 jars of water until it reaches the grains, filled. Also pour off and place with a small board, and keep it level.
corn grain, long root. This way, they will shell only the necessary amount of grain, and the lower, discarded grain from the first and second ends.
This way, the grain comes out with a certain, mature, full, healthy development.
(From 'Silsʹky Svit').
V. Samoilovich.
READERS' CORNER.
M. Mallet, March 14.
'Good day, esteemed 'Khliborob'!'
It's hard to deal with grandma!
— Haven't we had enough experience about how she promised us golden mountains, and then made a mockery of us?! Who in Curitiba doesn't find this ridiculous anymore? Who hasn't she exhibited here like small children, showing off silly toys?.. Well, enough, everyone understands why this Kobyliansky should not be here? He is also ours!
But life!... Silence!
Curitiba 8-3-1927
TADRA.
Curitiba monthly 'Zhyttia'
In due time, the Curitiba monthly 'Zhyttia' is to appear here. The reason it hasn't appeared yet is that the money collected was sent to Czechoslovakia by 'express'. But, as has happened many times with us and with others, when money is sent